
Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison has a soft spot in her heart for traitors.

The NYT reveals that the White House, in collusion with top Republican leaders, are planning to smear the very-Republican special prosecutor, Patrick Fitzgerald, if he brings charges against any White House officials.  The Times reports that the White House and the GOP are planning to brand Fitzgerald as an "overzealous" prosecutor who is simply interested in covering his ass by charging someone with something.

Funny, but it was just a few months ago that Karl Rove himself talked about how Democrats wanted to see our troops in Iraq killed.  How it was Republicans who were the REAL party that cared about defending America.  How it was Republicans who really wanted to win the war on terror.

And now we see the Republican party leadership for what they really are.  The party of treason.

This week, ever single Republican who dares to minize treason will be exposed as being soft on terrorism, offering sympathy to our nation's enemies, as traitors themselves.  They don't care if traitors put the lives of our soldiers and our spies in danger while our nation is at war.  And we're going to call them on it.  Every single one.

The first defender of treason is Republican Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas.
On Sunday, Republicans appeared to be preparing to blunt the impact of any charges. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas, speaking on the NBC news program "Meet the Press," compared the leak investigation with the case of Martha Stewart and her stock sale, "where they couldn't find a crime and they indict on something that she said about something that wasn't a crime."

Ms. Hutchison said she hoped "that if there is going to be an indictment that says something happened, that it is an indictment on a crime and not some perjury technicality where they couldn't indict on the crime and so they go to something just to show that their two years of investigation was not a waste of time and taxpayer dollars."
"Feel free to call Ms. Hutchison's office and ask why Senator Hutchison approves of treason:

(202) 224-5922

PS Feel free to let Senator Hutchison know there's a new t-shirt coming out with her name on it, and the name of every Republican Senator who support treason.

