

On This Week with George Stephanopoulos (ABC) George Stephanopoulos will be discussing the latest results of the Iraqi constitutional referendum with U.S. Ambassador to Iraq Zalmay Khalilzad and Sen. Jack Reed (D-RI). He will also be speaking with former prosecutors Joe diGenova and Richard Ben-Veniste about the CIA leak investigation. Finally, George Will, Joe Klein and Fareed Zakaria join a roundtable discussion.

Meet the Press (MSNBC) Tim Russert will speak to Secretary of State, Dr. Condoleezza Rice about Iraq's historic constitutional referendum. Sen. Carl Levin (D-MI), ranking member of the Armed Services Committee and member of the Intelligence Committee, will offer the Democratic view on the situation in Iraq.

Fox News Sunday (FOX News) will be looking at what's at stake for the future of Iraq and the Bush presidency  with Secretary of State, Dr. Condoleezza Rice. Sen. Richard Durbin (D-IL),  will weigh in on the Democrats' plan for success in Iraq.

On Late Edition (CNN), Wolf Blitzer will speak with Zalmay Khalilzad, U.S. ambassador to Iraq; Sen. John Warner (R-VA), chairman, Armed Services Committee & Select Intelligence Committee; Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Select Intelligence Committee; Judiciary Committee; Hoshyar Zebari Iraqi Foreign Minister; Dr. Irwin Redlener head of Columbia University's National Center for Disaster Preparedness; Anthony Shadid, Washington Post Foreign Correspondent & author of "Night Draws Near".

60 Minutes (CBS) will have stories on Afghanistan, the world's largest supplier of opium, former NFL linebacker Bill Romanowski speaking about steroid use in the NFL, and Ed Bradley talks to birdwatchers who claim to have spotted Ivory-Billed Woodpeckers&#151;birds long thought to be extinct.

On Face The Nation (CBS), will cover the topics of the Iraq constitution vote, the Miers nomination and the CIA leak investigation with guests: Sen. Joseph Biden (D-DE), Ranking Member, Foreign Relations Committee & Judiciary Committee Member; Sen. Charles Hagel (R-NE), Foreign Relations Committee Member; Doyle McManus from The Los Angeles Times; Jan Greenburg from The Chicago Tribune and Lara Logan, CBS News Correspondent.


