

A  for planting the bottle bombs found on the Tech campus yesterday:

"
[Theodore] Hollot, who told the judge he was unemployed, confessed Tuesday to setting explosive water bottles in a campus courtyard, school officials said. A nuclear and radiological engineering major from Pennsylvania, he turned himself in to Georgia Tech police Tuesday morning and was suspended from school pending the investigation, said Georgia Tech Assistant Vice President Amelia Gambino.

"This was not a terroristic attack," Gambino said.

Students who know Hollot described the long-haired student as clever and friendly, a teen who earned Eagle Scout rank while in high school.

In Hollot's online blog on myspace.com, he joked Saturday about needing "more dry ice and more water bottles." Monday night, he described his mood as "terrible beyond belief."

"
 that ended up at a Lawrenceville airfield yesterday:

"
Gwinnett County police Wednesday arrested a 22-year-old Buford man for allegedly stealing the jet found this week at Briscoe Field after passengers of the secret flight from Florida came forward.

Daniel Andrew Wolcott, 22, was charged with felony theft by receiving and five misdemeanor counts of reckless conduct, according to Gwinnett police spokesman Darren Moloney. A bond of $175,000 has been set for the state charges. Additional federal charges are expected to be filed against Wolcott.

Moloney said that while Wolcott has a commercial-rated pilot's license, he is not licensed to fly the Cessna Citation VII jet. Wolcott "wasn't qualified to fly this plane," Moloney said. "But apparently is a talented and gifted pilot."

The aircraft, which was reported stolen from the St. Augustine, Fla., airport, was found at Gwinnett's Briscoe Field on Monday afternoon by an airport employee.

"Investigators made contact with five individuals who came forward and gave statements of being on the plane when Wolcott flew it," Moloney said.

The passengers were apparently unaware that the plane had been stolen, said Moloney.

"

