

Last Saturday I got to attend a statewide coalition building conference organized by Indiana Progressives.  There were people from all over the state representing Democracy for Monroe County, Michiana for Democracy, Democracy for Morgan County, Downtown Indianapolis Meetup, Indiana Progressives, and Greater Lafayette Democracy for America, Indianapolis Northside Meetup, and Southern Indiana DFA.  Even more progressive groups in Indiana joined the conference in the afternoon.

Our special thanks go to all those who took time out of their weekends to be there and make this a great event&#151;and to Scott Alber, Eldon Robison, Roberta Schonemann, Shaw Friedman, and many others for making it happen so smoothly.

There's a lot of stuff going in Indiana, ranging from the Elect Six by '06 campaign to get 6 progressive legislatures elected to the State House, to Katrina relief efforts, to coalition building with like-minded groups in diverse constituencies.  We were also graced with several candidates running for a variety of offices.  They spoke to their commitment to stand up for what they believe in, and our capabilities toward supporting their efforts. And yes, we came away with much better sense of group activities around the state and the priorities that can be shared statewide.  

I've had the privilege of attending over twenty of these conferences since last March.  Every one has been a different and great experience.  As we all gear up for the last three weeks of the 2005 election cycle, the candidates, the initiatives and referendums that we are all participating in, I can honestly say that I have never seen a more dedicated effort toward taking this country back that is so consistent everywhere I go.  

Check out the Indiana Progressives' website at: http://www.indianaprogressives.com/. And while you're at it, start thinking about candidates for local office whom we should be helping in the next cycle, both in Indiana and elsewhere.  It's our time to bring on the real leadership and move this country's politics beyond the culture of entitlement that it has become.


