

The rain in Spain may fall mainly on the plain &mdash; but hurricanes steer well clear. Until this year, that is:

Tropical Storm Vince formed Sunday in the far eastern Atlantic and quickly intensified into a hurricane, making this hurricane season the second busiest on record, forecasters said.

Vince is the season?s 20th named storm and 11th hurricane. That leaves one name&#160;&mdash; Wilma&#160;&mdash; on the predetermined list of storm names before this year will tie as the busiest season on record in the Atlantic.

...&#160;Forecasters are perplexed, because it has formed farther north and east than any other storm on record. Its location isn?t the only oddity. Vince has ignored the usual recipe for hurricane formation, gathering over waters that are more than 5 degrees cooler than the usual 80-degree threshold favored by tropical systems.

"

So the storm never should have happened &mdash; but it did, and it hit Spain as a tropical storm before going into the record books.

Which would hardly merit discussion&#160;... except that another oddball storm formed in the Atlantic last year.

Pick up any text book on hurricanes and it will tell you that the one place where hurricanes do not occur is the South Atlantic Ocean. The atmosphere does not provide enough spin near the surface to get them started and winds higher in the atmosphere tend to shear off any that do make a start. Hence, it was with some amazement that meteorologists watched the first ever recorded hurricane develop off the coast of Brazil in the last week of March.

Initially the storm did not look much like a hurricane, but in common with some of its counterparts which develop in the North Atlantic Ocean, it acquired enough characteristics to convince the majority of the world's tropical cyclone experts that it was indeed a hurricane. It came ashore in the Brazilian state of Santa Catarina on 28 March 2004 with winds, estimated by the US National Hurricane Center, of near 90 m.p.h., causing much damage to property and some loss of life. The Brazilian meteorologists dubbed it 'Catarina'.

"

Coincidence? Perhaps. But these quirks seem to happen more and more often. Time to start wondering why?


