
 
I'm debating two oil industry reps on the NPR interview show  Hammer. DeLay was able to squeeze a partial victory for the oil industry through the House, on a 212-210 vote that came only after 45 minutes of desperate arm-twisting of Republican moderates like Wayne Gilchrest (R-MD). Not a single Democrat voted for the bill, even though it had been successively defanged by removing broadly unacceptable provisions to open the outer continental shelf in California, Florida, and the East coast to the oil industry and to allow outmoded and dirty refineries to continue polluting indefinitely. 

The bill as passed now heads for the Senate, where the narrow margin in the House strongly suggests it will wither. In addition to an insulting $2,000,000 appropriation to encourage energy conservation through carpooling, its main feature is that it gives the federal government permission to select three former military facilities around the country and plop new oil refineries down on them -- without state or local consent. This, allegedly, will solve the shortage of refinery capacity currently plaguing the country. Among the locations under consideration: California's Monterey Bay. (For  a full list of the places the President might decide to jam a refinery down a local community's throat, )

The debate on  opens with House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi repeating her ringing denunciation of the heavy-handed way the House leadership rammed the bill through. Leon Panetta, who represented Monterey in Congress before becoming President Clinton's Chief of Staff, follows with a discussion of how absurd the idea of putting a refinery in Monterey Bay would be. Then the two petroleum voices, Anita Mangels for the Western States Petroleum Association, and William S. Cooper, an oil-industry attorney at Hunton & Williams in DC, get to come after me. They are, to put it mildly, wildly contradictory for the whole half hour. Either this bill really does nothing, or it will solve our refinery crisis. Either we have a refinery crisis because of outrageous state and local permit requirements, or we can solve it without infringing on state and local autonomy. Either refineries are good neighbors, or the reason why so many were shut down is because they couldn't afford to operate cleanly. Either the idea of drilling for oil off the California coast is a canard and a distraction because no one is seriously considering it (Mangels), or it is a very good idea and a key to our energy future (Cooper). 

Cooper claims that renewable energy won't replace petroleum because it can't compete. I suggest getting rid of all the subsidies to all forms of energy -- fossils, nukes, and renewables -- to level the playing field. Cooper announces that since the oil industry pays taxes, he doesn't consider any of the payments it gets from the federal government to be subsidies. Well, I pay taxes, too, but no one's offered me a several billion dollar subsidy. 

The reality is that this bill makes no sense, and by itself would probably do nothing. But it is, as Mangels says, "the first step." "The first step to what?" is the question. 

The answer is clear: Oil industry members of Congress and their allies in the Administration believe that America needs new petroleum sacrifice zones. It's not enough that the oil industry has devastated the Louisiana and Texas coasts by destroying the wetlands that should have protected New Orleans, by fouling the turtle nesting areas of Padre Island National Seashore, and by killing and maiming thousands of residents of Cancer Alley along the Mississippi River. Now, California, Florida, the Carolinas, Virginia, and New England must also be turned over to the oil industry. First we must throw them billions of dollars of taxpayer dollars to ensure their engorged profits. Then we will allow them to build new refineries without regard for their neighbors or for state and local control. Then we will bribe state governors to turn their coastlines into oil fields to feed these new refineries. And then we will eliminate public health standards to make these refineries even more profitable. This is not even a conspiracy -- it's not secretive enough.

But the tactic is, well, not exactly straightforward and upright. Two weeks ago Richard Pombo,  by weakening Clean Air Act regulations governing old, dirty facilities -- exactly the change with regard to refineries that the Republican leadership in the House had to drop to squeeze their energy bill through by two votes last week.

When it comes to members of Congress, we can't be distracted by what they say when they come home -- we need to watch what they do in Washington, DC. 

And what do the American people think? Well, according to this week's  three quarters of them think that environmental regulations should either be strengthened or kept at their present level. So perhaps it is not surprising that Congressional approval ratings continue to decline, with the latest NBC poll finding only 32 percent of the public approving of the leadership. 

Eventually, 
  
					

