
Q. The documentary "Touch the Sound," which is about a deaf musician named Evelyn Glennie, will not be released theatrically with subtitles. Think about this for a second. While many people might want to see this film, I would guess that the movie will be of particular interest to the hearing-impaired. They would require subtitles to appreciate the content in any meaningful way beyond visual imagery and perhaps lip-reading.

But according to a representative of the distribution company, the director felt that "the visual aspect of the film is as important as the aural" and that "the subtitles would be hurtful" in the theatrical release. So this film is about deaf people, but is not for deaf people. I believe that citing aesthetic reasons for not using subtitles is insensitive and against the very spirit behind this particular film.

Heather Chan,Toronto

A. I mentioned this peculiar decision in my review, and queried the distributors, Shadow Distribution. Spokesman Ken Eisen replies:

"'Touch the Sound' is being exhibited theatrically without subtitles, in its original English-language version. While there are about 250 screens in U.S. theaters that have the capability of screening rear-projected closed captioned versions of films, none of those screens show art films, and so authorizing such a version would not be helpful.

"We are, instead, working with theaters in each city in which 'Touch the Sound' plays to set up at least one special screening at which the film will be interpreted by a sign language interpreter so that it is as accessible as possible to all audiences who wish to see it. Such a screening will happen in Chicago at the Music Box."

Ebert again: This answer sidesteps the possibility of actually subtitling all prints of film. The special screening with sign language is not much of a solution, since all the other screenings will be inaccessible, and watching signing during a movie is more difficult than reading subtitles, particularly given the lighting conditions. I believe the non-subtitle decision by director Thomas Riedelsheimer is wrong-headed. Carla Leete, assistant to Evelyn Glennie, informs me: "We are currently in the process of creating a statement addressing the subtitle issue, which will eventually be found on Evelyn's site (www.evelyn.co.uk)."

