

Jonathan S. Landay and Warren P. Strobel. A special place on our honor roll must be reserved for these two Knight Ridder reporters, and their Washington bureau chief, John Walcott. As media critic Michael Massing wrote in The New York Review of Books, Knight Ridder "almost alone among national news organizations...decided to take a hard look at the administration's justifications for war." On Feb. 5, 2004, Landay and Strobel were awarded the Raymond Clapper Memorial Award from the Washington Press Club Foundation for their coverage. And in August 2004, the American Journalism Review singled the two out for praise, calling their stories "compelling," and noting that, "on many occasions, it seemed like they were banging the drum alone."

Here are excerpts from two of their articles:

On October 8, 2002, they wrote in an article titled, "Bush Hawks Accused of Distortions; Experts List Case After Case of Misleading the Public About Iraq":

A growing number of military, intelligence and diplomatic leaders have deep misgivings about the Bush administration's march toward war in Iraq.

These officials say administration hawks have publicly exaggerated evidence of the threat that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein poses, including:

Distorting his links to the al-Qaida terrorist network.

Overstating the amount of international support for attacking Iraq.

Downplaying the potential repercussions of a new war in the Middle East.

They also say intelligence analysts are under intense pressure to produce reports supporting the White House's argument against Saddam.
"

On October 27, 2002, the two followed up with an article titled, "Infighting Among U.S. Intelligence Agencies Fuels Dispute over Iraq."

The Pentagon and the CIA are waging a bitter feud over secret intelligence that is being used to shape U.S. policy toward Iraq, according to current and former U.S. officials...The dispute pits hardliners long distrustful of the U.S. intelligence community against professional military and intelligence officers who fear the hawks are shaping intelligence analyses to support their case for invading Iraq.
"

