

An article in yesterday's  at The Corner) suggests that the Miers' nomination, and the subsequent conservative angst, are the result of a failed attempt to stare down Democratic filibusterers on lower-court appointments.

"
Last spring, the move to change Senate rules was opposed by Republican mavericks, including John McCain of Arizona, John Warner of Virginia, Mike DeWine of Ohio, and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina. Herding those cats back into line would require an unusual combination of White House arm-twisting and grass-roots lobbying -- something all four resisted last spring. And in changing Senate rules to push through a particular nominee, the White House couldn't necessarily count on other independent-minded GOP senators such as George Voinovich of Ohio and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska. There aren't enough carrots and sticks in White House to win over all those senators in the best of times, and these haven't been the best of times for Bush.

The numbers just don't add up. Limbaugh and his listeners may be armed for battle, but their fight was effectively over last spring, when the GOP failed to change the filibuster rules.

Now, social conservatives must wait to see if Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Miers prove to be right-wingers; it could be a long, painful wait.

"
This is a point that I'm not sure has been sufficiently discussed within the brouhaha over whether Miers is a conservative, moderate, qualified, unqualified, token female, pro-life, evangelical, originalist Bush crony.  Is it a valid argument that the administration backed down from a more "extreme" nominee because his Republican allies in the Senate would have failed to win a filibuster fight?

If that possibility exists, then, should the President have still offered up a firebrand appointment, or must we acknowledge that he played the best hand with the cards on the table?

I suppose I'm still prone to the idea that President Bush should have selected the most qualified and established candidate, regardless of his or her tendency toward controversy.  But it seems that the Globe makes a valid point to suggest that the GOP may have lost more than it gained in not taking a more valiant stand against the minority party's blocking of earlier nominations.



